We want to add a second dimension table, the DIM-AgeGroup table.
Now to do this, we will follow the same approach that we learned for the DIM-Region table first,
so the first thing we have to do is we have to create a reference to the population combined query.
To do this,
we right-click on population combined, like this and press reference. Now while this is loading,
we can simply drag that to the data-model group already and now it is loaded
and the first thing we should do is we should rename that query again.
So let's go to properties, select the whole name and call it DIM-AgeGroup and press enter, like this.
Now that this loaded,
let's think about what columns we actually need
and as we want to talk about age groups, well we only need one column here, right?
We only need that Age-Group column.
So let's select it and now go to the home ribbon, to the remove columns button right here, press the
lower part of it and now press remove other columns.
You remember with that command, you remove all the columns that are not selected at the moment,
this is what we want, so we can simply press that
and here we have it and now again we have to follow the same logic that we learn from the DIM-Region table.
So the next thing we have to do is we have to remove the duplicates again because at the moment, we can see
that each Age-Group is existing multiple times
and this is not good because the DIM-AgeGroup table should only contain unique values when it comes
to the different age groups.
So let's remove the duplicates
and as we are still in the home ribbon right here, we can go to the remove rows button right now, click
it and press remove duplicates, like this.
So now we have a unique column with all the different age groups that we have in our initial population
combined query.
Now what do we want to add?
If you think back about our illustration which showed us what we want to have in that DIM-AgeGroup
table,
so we want to have the Age-Group,
this is something we have already,
we want to have the AgeGroup-ID and the categories,
now let's think about the AgeGroup-ID first.
We need something like this,
let's go to the DIM-Region table,
something like the country ID, So one column with a unique number for each of the age groups.
Now we don't have that at the moment in our DIM-AgeGroup table,
the good thing is if we go to a new ribbon which we didn't have a look at so far, the add color ribbon, we
can see that we have multiple options on what you want to do with the columns.
Now if you look at this index column function right here, this might be the thing that we need, right?
So if you click onto that arrow right here, you can see that you can create an index column and you can
even define the starting point,
so you can start counting from zero, from one or we can define a custom index column.
I don't think we need a custom index column right now,
so I think we should just select the from one function right there.
Let's click that,
now it takes a few seconds and now we created a new column.
Let's quickly select the column and drag it to the left right here and double-click it to rename it
to AgeGroup-ID and press enter.
So we have that new query, the DIM-AgeGroup, we have the AgeGroup-ID column, we have the Age-Group
column but there is something missing, right?
We do not have that categorization at the moment, so that may be adult and so on for the different age
groups.
Let's learn how to do that in the next video.